# Course-Scheduling
Opitimizing course scheduling with Python

Ideally, a course scheduling system should:
"	Efficiently utilize the available space to schedule all courses and output a feasible schedule on time, well before registration starts. This is projected to become more difficult in the future as demand for Marshall courses is expected to rise, but the school does not have the resources to build additional classrooms due to land restrictions. Furthermore, in the next few years, Marshall plans to undergo a large-scale renovation of Bridge and Accounting buildings, which would remove several medium sized classrooms for one academic year. Classroom utilization must become more efficient during this time to make up for the supply shortage. If efficiency does not rise through optimization, then Marshall may be forced to increasingly schedule classes during early morning or late evening hours, which may be unpopular to the majority of students and faculty.
"	Satisfy the preferences and needs of students as much as possible, so that they are able to successfully schedule all their required courses as well as the electives that they most desire. Students also have preferences for certain time of day that should be satisfied as much as possible.
"	Satisfy the preferences of faculty as much as possible. For example, most faculty prefer to teach everything on the same day, so they do not have to teach every day of the week. Moreover, many faculty prefer not to teach in the evenings, although some actually prefer evenings to avoid traffic. It's best to match the times with faculty preferences, so as to improve the work environment for faculty and help Marshall to recruit and retain the best.
"	Limit the administrative effort needed by Shannon's team and by department coordinators, who also have other roles to fill.
"	Adapt to the changing needs of the students and faculty, as the set of courses and the demand for each course changes from one year to the next, and there may be changes in the composition of students as well as turnover among faculty.
